Preamble
Acknowledgements
Table of contents
Introduction

Purpose, operation and validation
    What is the software intended to do?
    How does a user run or operate it?
    What inputs does it take and what outputs does it produce?
    How can the user tell it is working correctly?
    What evidence shows it performs its intended purpose?

Design and implementation
    How is the software designed overall?
    How is that design implemented in code?
    What are the main parts of the system and how do they work together?

Design and implementation: Significant assumptions made for the design and implementation
    What key assumptions were made when designing the software?
    How do those assumptions affect how the software works or is used?

Design and implementation: Languages, packages, frameworks, and libraries used
    What technologies were used to build the software?
    Why were these choices used in this project?

Design and implementation: Overall architecture / system design and interfaces between components
    What are the main components of the system?
    How do those components communicate with each other?

Design and implementation: Data model(s), including in-memory structures and persistent storage
    What data does the system store or process?
    How is that data represented in memory or saved persistently?

Design and implementation: Significant methods, functions, or other lower-level elements
    What lower-level parts of the implementation are most important?
    What does each important method or function do?

Design and implementation: Important errors and their conditions
    What important errors can occur?
    Under what conditions do those errors happen?
    How does the software respond to them?

Design and implementation: User interface design
    How does the user interact with the software?
    What interface choices were made and why?

Design and implementation: Quality assurance steps
    What steps were taken to improve software quality?
    How was the software checked for correctness, reliability, and maintainability?

Quality assurance: Version control and versioning
    How was version control used during development?
    How were changes tracked and managed?

Quality assurance: Code style and convention
    What code style or conventions were followed?
    How did those conventions help keep the code clear and consistent?

Quality assurance: Automated testing
    What automated tests were implemented?
    What parts of the software do those tests verify?

Appendices


###

pdflatex -output-directory=docs\paper\software_dev_report docs\paper\software_dev_report\software_dev_report.tex

###
