Please find below some tips and suggestions for writing. These can often be used as a “checklist”. Please let me know if you have any questions:

Note that MEng dissertation templates will be slightly different to BEng/BSc but if you are unsure please do not hesitate to ask.

Spend a solid morning getting a dissertation template together (see student handbook for reference). Whether you are using MS Word, Latex or another tool please ensure that you have a clear title page, contents page(S), possibly a list of figures/tables/abbreviations if appropriate (optional). Chapters should begin on a new page and your references should be included as a bibliography at the end. You may also wish to include appendices (e.g. to list your use cases/system requirements out in full).
Usually your code should not be included in the appendix but instead will hopefully be documented in a Git repo which you can reference in your work. In your template make sure that figures, tables and citations are dynamically referenced, i.e. if you insert a new figure then the numbering and cross reference to the figures are automatically updated in the text.
Try to give a full a citation as possible. Where possible try to use text books, peer reviewed academic papers (see Google Scholar, Mendeley etc.). You can reference webpages but this should generally be reserved for company products or toolboxes that are relevant to your project. Please double check the student handbook to see if there is a specified reference format – if not please choose one of the standard approaches (Harvard, APA, IEEE etc.) and implement this correctly and consistently in your dissertation. There are Mendeley and Refworks plugins for MS Word which can help to import references correctly in to your document.
Write formally – Avoid using “I, we, my, our” etc. where absolutely possible. Although you have all worked hard developing “your system” unfortunately in this context you don’t have ownership as such. Instead you are presenting abstract software concepts and their implementation, so you might discuss “the system” etc..
Explicitly cross reference sections/chapters/tables/figures in the main body of the text. Avoid using “as seen below”, “as discussed above”, “as discussed previously”. Instead we want “as shown in Figure…”, “As discussed in Section 1.x” etc. Note that when explicitly referencing a particular figure/section/table/chapter that we use a capital letter.
Each figure and table should have a caption and the caption should be written in full sentences. Image the figure/table is dropped on the ground out of context of the dissertation. Someone should be able to pick up the figure/table and appreciate what it is trying to show.
A picture can speak a thousand words – if you are describing a model or system architecture often the inclusion of a figure can help you clearly explain to the reader what you are trying to show.
Avoid having a chapter/section heading followed immediately by a sub-heading, e.g.
Chapter 1 Introduction
                Section 1.1 The first concept
                Instead have a brief explanation paragraph or couple of sentences clarifying to the reader what purpose the chapter/section has in the dissertation. For example:
                                Chapter 1 Introduction
                                The area of … is very important… This chapter will …

                                Section 1.1 The first concept
Avoid long/compound sentences. Computing readers often have a short attention span. When the sentence becomes 3-4 lines long the reader can sometimes get lost. Try to simplify things or break long sentences in two.
Perfect paragraph is like the perfect porridge - not too little and not too much. Some dissertations have been submitted in the past containing paragraphs that are only 1 or 2 sentences long. Whilst there are no hard rules on the length of a paragraph, usually paragraphs are around 10 lines long. Equally, if a paragraph starts becoming longer than half a page you may wish to rethink the structure of your writing.
Speaking of short attention spans, at the start of a section briefly explain to the reader the motivation for the section and what they are about to read. Where possible try to link the paragraphs/sub-sections within a section. If a section runs longer than 2 pages make sure you have reiterated the motivation and remind the reader where you are ultimately trying to get to at the end of the section and why the next sub-section/component is necessary if you are entering the 3rd or 4th page of discussion.
I would recommend having a clear plan for your writing. Every paragraph should have a purpose. I would recommend having a skeleton plan of what you need the reader to have obtained by the end of a chapter/section and then work out the key points that will need to be explored along the way. These key points can become your sections/subsections/paragraphs etc..
Try to be critical and objective in your comments. Critical doesn’t necessary mean negative but rather try it is showing the ability to identify the key points and to clearly form your argument using these points.
Try to aim the level of your writing for a reader who is a student starting their BSc/BEng/MEng project. Therefore they will have all the background knowledge that has been covered in your course and will already have some knowledge of core computing concepts.
Relate everything back to your project and the problem at hand. The reader doesn’t want a text book introduction in to what is Agile computing or when something was first invented. If you have chosen to use certain concepts then absolutely reference text books/ papers where the reader can explore if the want more information but how does it relate to your work? For example, an the Agile development practice of … [reference] is adopted in this work due to ….<enter benefits that are particularly relevant to your work>.
Avoid general statements “…improves efficiency…”, “…provides highly cohesive code…”, “…is scalable…”. If the sentence could be extracted from your dissertation and inserted in to a completely different dissertation it is probably too general. Instead relate it back to your project “…has been shown to be more efficient than other practices […] which is important since <insert project specific reference to why this project needs efficiency>”.
Less is sometime more. There is a fine balance between writing too little and therefore leaving the reader confused and writing too much leaving the reader overwhelmed. As a rule of thumb only write a statement/sentence if it is necessary and is adding directly to your discussion (see Point 9). If you removed the sentence could the reader still appreciate the point you are trying to argue? If so, remove the sentence.
Try to connect chapters and sections with their neighbours. This can be as simple as including a single sentence at the end of a section (or even as you introduce the section) as to how it links with the next section to come. At the end of chapters it is beneficial to have a concluding paragraph that summarises the core purpose of the chapter and leads the reader in to the next chapter.